What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

    When I initialize a repository, a .git(hidden) folder is added to the repo.
    Initializing a repository is mandatory to enable version control on the repo.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

    Staging area acts as an intermediate between the working directory and the repo.
    It offers the choice of choosing what files to involve in a commit since the user might
    not want to include all the files in a commit.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

    Staging Area stores the file intermediately before commits are made. Adding only
    the selected file to the staging area allows us to have one commit per logical change.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

    Branches are helpful when I wanna add a new feature to my software on an experimental
    basis, i.e., when I am unsure whether it would ship with the final product. In that case, I
    can test the new feature in a separate feature and if I like it, I can merge that branch with
    the master branch.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

    Diagrams help us see the reachcbility of commits. The diagrams help us to identify 
    unreachable commits (if any).

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

    Merging two branches combines the commits made in both the branches into a single
    branch. The way we represent it in the diagram is because we can use the merge commit to
    reach the commits of either branch, i.e., no commits from either branch are unreachable
    after merging.

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

    Git's automatic merging saves time and effort. On the other hand, manually merging allows
    to review the code before merging. Manually merging might take some time but it preserves
    essential feature that might have been added later to the code.